docs: Update the MicroK8s page to reflect 4.4 changes (#2805)
spectrocloud/librarium: docs/docs-content/integrations/microk8s.md

tags: ["packs", "microk8s", "kubernetes"]
---

[MicroK8s](https://microk8s.io) is a lightweight Cloud Native Computing Foundation (CNCF) certified Kubernetes
distribution developed by [Canonical](https://canonical.com). It deploys all Kubernetes services in a single, fully
contained package, while also offering out-of-the-box [add-ons](https://microk8s.io/docs/addons).

> Palette offers MicroK8s as an available Kubernetes distribution for creating clusters. You can use MicroK8s as the

Author: :white_check_mark:

Kubernetes layer when creating a [cluster profile](../profiles/profiles.md) and then use the cluster profile to deploy a

> cluster.

Author: :white_check_mark:

### Support Lifecycle

> We support other Kubernetes distributions, such as K3s and RKE2, until their official End-of-Life (EOL). The EOL is set

Reviewer: That sentence sounds a bit weird in this context. We discuss about MicroK8s, but we mention other distros EOL.

Author: I agree and rewrote the sentence :)

by the respective owner. Once we stop supporting the minor version, we initiate the deprecation process. Refer to the

> [Kubernetes Support Lifecycle](kubernetes-support.md#palette-extended-kubernetes-support) guide to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Kubernetes Support Lifecycle](kubernetes-support.md#other-kubernetes-distributions) guide to learn more.
```

## Versions Supported

<Tabs queryString="versions">

<TabItem label="1.28.x" value="1.28.x">

### Prerequisites

- A minimum of 20 GB of disk space and 4 GB of memory.

- Operating System (OS) pack layer and infrastructure provider dependencies as listed in the table below.

| Infrastructure Platform | OS     | Version | Supported?         |
| ----------------------- | ------ | ------- | ------------------ |
| AWS                     | Ubuntu | 22.04   | :white_check_mark: |

> | MAAS                    | Ubuntu | 22.04   | :white_check_mark: |

Author: I agree! Done :)

| `microk8sConfig.bootCommands`    | A list of commands you can set to be executed during boot.                                                                                                                                                                     |
| `microk8sConfig.preRunCommands`  | A list of commands you can set to be executed before installing MicroK8s in your cluster.                                                                                                                                      |
| `microk8sConfig.postRunCommands` | A list of commands you can set to be executed after installing MicroK8s in your cluster.                                                                                                                                       |

### Usage

To use MicroK8s, select it as the Kubernetes distribution when choosing the Kubernetes layer during the cluster profile
creation. Remember that the cloud type must be either AWS or MAAS, and the OS layer must be Ubuntu 22.04.

![A view of the cluster profile Kubernetes selection screen](/integrations_microk8s_cluster-profile-view.webp)

:::info

> MicroK8s clusters use the [Calico CNI](https://microk8s.io/docs/change-cidr) by default. However, this default

Author: Done!

installation was disabled due to Palette's requirement for a CNI layer to be present in the cluster profiles.

:::

#### Upgrade Strategy

The upgrade strategy describes how to replace existing machines with new ones during upgrades. Three types of upgrade
strategy are available:

> - `RollingUpgrade` - This is the default upgrade strategy. It deletes the current control plane machine before creating
>   a new one.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `RollingUpgrade` - This is the default upgrade strategy. It deletes the current control plane node before creating
  a new one.
```

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure that _control plane machine_ is the term here, maybe node?

Author: :white_check_mark:

>   a new one.

Author: :white_check_mark:

> - `InPlaceUpgrade` - It performs an in-place upgrade of the control plane. For clusters with one control plane and one
>   worker node, `InPlaceUpgrade` temporarily causes the API server to be down.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `InPlaceUpgrade` - It performs an in-place upgrade of the control plane. For clusters with one control plane and one
  worker node, `InPlaceUpgrade` temporarily shuts down the API server.
```

Author: :white_check_mark:

> - `InPlaceUpgrade` - It performs an in-place upgrade of the control plane. For clusters with one control plane and one
>   worker node, `InPlaceUpgrade` temporarily causes the API server to be down.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `InPlaceUpgrade` - Performs an in-place upgrade of the control plane. For clusters with one control plane and one
  worker node, `InPlaceUpgrade` temporarily causes the API server to be down.
```

Author: :white_check_mark:

- `SmartUpgrade` - It does an in-place upgrade of the control plane on clusters with less than three control plane

>   nodes, and rolling upgrade on clusters with three or more control plane nodes.

Author: :white_check_mark:

You can specify the upgrade strategy during cluster profile creation by editing the value of the `upgradeStrategy`

> parameter in the MicroK8s pack YAML file displayed under the **Pack Details** section.

Reviewer 2: I think this would work best at the start of this section: first, you mention how to perform an upgrade, and then you mention the available upgrade options.

Author: Ohhh yes :)

:::warning

> When using `RollingUpgrade` as the upgrade strategy, the cluster must have at least three control plane nodes.
> Otherwise, the API server will be down during the upgrade, and the cluster will become inaccessible..

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When using the `RollingUpgrade` strategy, the cluster must have at least three control plane nodes.
Otherwise, the API server will be down during the upgrade, and the cluster will not be accessible.
```

Author: :white_check_mark:

> :::

Reviewer 2: I think you could add this warning under the RollingUpgrade bullet, to keep the relevant information togheter

Author: :white_check_mark:
